
In condition monitoring of rotating machines with defective
bearings, the bearing resonant high frequency gets excited by
the impulses arising from the low-frequency bearing local
defects (e.g., inner race, outer race, rolling element). A lot of
methods, including fast Fourier transform (FFT), the highfrequency resonance technique (HFRT), shock-pulse
monitoring (SPM), and wavelet transform (WT), are used to
determine the health condition of bearings. 

FFT alone is not
capable of analyzing the frequency content of a defective 
bearing signal [3]. FFT only provides a global energy frequency distribution and fails to depict non-stationarity of a
signal caused by a local defect.

HFRT, which is also called
“envelope analysis,” is a technique that separates frequencies
from vibration signals generated by other elements. The
application of HFRT is limited by the use of vibration exciters
and controllers [4]. 

SPM can detect the presence of impulses
caused by defects in bearings [5], but it cannot localize a defect
in case there exist masking or interference frequencies from
other defects (e.g., gearbox) that are similar to the bearing
frequencies. 

As a time-frequency analysis technique, WT was
developed recently and is useful for the analysis of transient
and non-stationary signatures. The major drawback of WT is
that it uses a fixed wavelet function for analysis at certain
decomposition levels and does not take into account the
signal’s characteristics [6].

As a self-adaptive decomposition technique for nonstationary and non-linear signal analysis, empirical mode
decomposition (EMD) was proposed by Huang et al. [7]. It is a
method that decomposes a time series into a finite number of
intrinsic mode functions (IMFs), which represent different
oscillatory modes in the data. Recently, research has been
conducted on the application and improvement of EMD for
mechanical fault diagnosis and condition monitoring. For
example, Fan and Zuo [8] applied EMD to decompose signals
and used the Hilbert transform to demodulate gearbox fault
signals. Li and Ji [9] proposed an improved EMD method for
signal feature extraction. Yan and Gao [10] presented an EMD
based signal decomposition and feature extraction technique
and investigated two criteria, the time-domain energy measure
and correlation measure, for the selection of intrinsic mode
functions (IMFs)