 Vibration analysis
 
 <https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/vibration-analysis>
 
 
 Vibration analysis methodology could be subdivided into four principal domains:
	- Time domain (tiem series):
		Typically, time-domain analysis is devoted to detecting the integral performance of the tested part: peak, average, root-mean-square, envelope values of vibration amplitude. These values are compared with threshold values in order to detect abnormal performance or latent defects.
	
	- Frequency domain (fft):
		Frequency domain is able to provide more information as the measured signal is decomposed into a sequence of frequency components (spectrum) by a Fourier transform calculation (or fast Fourier transform—FFT). Local analysis of the different frequency components permits the association of a signature with the processed signal, such that the tested part can be identified precisely by its own signature (signature analysis)
		
	- Joint domain (time/frequency domain) (wavelet):
		Due to the time-varying property of the signal, calculating many spectrums on the time observation window can be found to be useful. To do so, a joint time/frequency technique (Gabor−Wigner−Wavelet) can be used very efficiently. In a particular case of time/frequency analysis, the spectrums are related to the rotational speed of the tested devices (order analysis), such that the analysis of the single order which is represented by a frequency component varying with the speed is rendered possible.

	- Modal analysis:
		Modal analysis permits the study of the dynamic properties of structures under vibration excitation. This technique uses FFT in order to carry out a transfer function which shows one or more resonances, by means of which it is possible to estimate the characteristic mass, damping, stiffness, and other properties of the tested part. Using a laser interferometer, and suitable software tools, it is possible to apply noncontact vibration analysis for the test and measurement of MEMS (micro-electromechanical system) and MOEMS (micro-optical electromechanical system) dynamics and topography.
 
 
 
 Vibration analysis is a powerful process of performing all of the following:
		a) Current machine Status.
		b) Diagnosing defects related with operational machines.
		c) Monitoring the overall condition of machines.[5]
		
 A complete vibration analysis consists of the following three components:
		a) Exact vibration determination
		b) Bearing condition determination
		c) FFT analysis
		
This paper is divided into different sections, each dealing with various aspects of the subject. It begins with maintenance of machine followed by types of monitoring;
vibration analysis uses in different machineries till date and general overview of the advanced techniques of signature analysis.




MONITORING TECHNIQUES

 Definition: 
  Condition-Based Monitoring may be defined as the process of monitoring a parameter of condition of a	machine, any impending technical failure or fault may become apparent. Predictive maintenance renders maintenance activities frequent and scheduled, such that any failure may be avoided at an early stage



 Condition-based maintenance is the best suitable technique to avoid unwanted futuristic failures through condition monitoring or signature analysis for rotating machineries.
 
Condition-Based-Monitoring techniques: (system is very complex and the end user is faced by a great amount of information to analyse)
	a) Lubrication Analysis
	b) Shock impact analysis
	c) Low frequency monitoring
	d) Higher-order spectral techniques
	e) Wear debris analysis
	f) Ultra Sound Analysis
	g) Temperature Analysis
	
	
Vibration signature analysis is the best suitable technique available for fault identification.
	
ADVANCED TECHNIQUES FOR VIBRATION SIGNATURE ANALYSIS
	*Fuzzy logic neural network (FNN)
	*Wavelet
		Wavelet transform (WT) is a mathematical approach that decomposes a time-domain signal into different frequency groups. Wavelet algorithms process data at different scales and resolutions
	*Expert system
	*Model-based systems
	
	
	
!!!!!  Neural networks-based classifications are used in diagnosis of rolling element bearings.
!!!!!  Fuzzy logic and neural networks have been used in modeling and decision making in diagnostics schemes.


	Vibration analog signal can be converted in discrete data for further investigation and various time-domain and frequency-domain features can be used for further investigations. The Hilbert and wavelets transform have tremendous scope in machine fault signature analysis.



The use of a FUZZY LOGIC approach for integration of vibration-based diagnostic features of rolling element bearings
<https://www.jvejournals.com/article/16138>

authors presented the generalization of the spectral correlation density called modulation intensity distribution (MID), used for detection of modulations in vibration signal.

???
On the other hand, REB maintenance can be performed not only based on the vibration signal – in [15] it was shown that employing neural network and the temperature measurement can also provide recognition of damage at the early stage.
???

authors propose the method based on Mamdani-type fuzzy interference engine [28] including fuzzification and defuzzification input-output modules.

envelope spectrum process requires few preliminary steps, namely acquisition and validation of vibration signal, and finally feature extraction






